=pod

=head1 NAME

dt-getaddr - command-line test program for the I<val_getaddrinfo()> function 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    dt-getaddr [options] <hostname|IPv4 address|IPv6 address>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility is a command-line wrapper around the I<val_getaddrinfo()> function. 
It invokes the I<val_getaddrinfo()> operation for the given command-line
arguments and displays the return code from the function and the contents of the
I<addrinfo> structure. 

The exit status for this program is 1 if the answer received is trusted, 2 if 
the answer received is validated, and -1 for an error. If no validation is performed,
or the result is neither trusted nor validated, a value of 0 is returned. The trusted and
validated status values are obtained using the I<val_istrusted()> and
I<val_isvalidated()> functions from I<libval(3)>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -c, --canonname

Use the AI_CANONNAME flag in I<val_getaddrinfo()>.

=item -s, --service=I<PORT|SERVICE>

Use the specified transport-layer port or service name.

=item -o, --output=<debug-level>:<dest-type>[:<dest-options>]

<debug-level> is 1-7, corresponding to syslog levels ALERT-DEBUG
<dest-type> is one of file, net, syslog, stderr, stdout
<dest-options> depends on <dest-type>
    file:<file-name>   (opened in append mode)
    net[:<host-name>:<host-port>] (127.0.0.1:1053
    syslog[:facility] (0-23 (default 1 USER))

=item -h, --help

Display the help and exit.

=back

=head1 PRE-REQUISITES

libval

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2013 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

=head1 AUTHORS

Abhijit Hayatnagarkar, Suresh Krishnaswamy, Robert Story

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<val_getaddrinfo(3)>

B<libval(3)>

http://www.dnssec-tools.org

=cut

