=pod

=head1 NAME

dt-validate - Query the Domain Name System and display results of the DNSSEC validation process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  dt-validate [options] DOMAIN_NAME

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<dt-validate> is a diagnostic tool built on top of the DNSSEC validator.  It
takes I<DOMAIN_NAME> as an argument and queries the DNS for that domain name.
It outputs the series of responses that were received from the DNS and the
DNSSEC validation results for each domain name.  An examination of the queries
and validation results can help an administrator uncover errors in DNSSEC
configuration of DNS zones.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -c I<CLASS>, --class=I<CLASS>

This option can be used to specify the DNS class of the Resource
Record queried.  If this option is not given, the default class
B<IN> is used.

=item -h, --help

Display the help and exit.

=item -p, --print

Print the answers and validation results.  By default, B<dt-validate>
just outputs a series of responses and their validation results on
I<stderr>.  When the I<-p> option is used, B<dt-validate> will also output
the final result on I<stdout>.

=item -t I<TYPE>, --type=I<TYPE>

This option can be used to specify the DNS type of the Resource Record
queried.  If this option is not given, B<dt-validate> will query for the
B<A> record for the given I<DOMAIN_NAME>.

=item -v I<FILE>, --dnsval-conf=I<FILE>

This option can be used to specify the location of the B<dnsval.conf>
configuration file.

=item -r I<FILE>, --resolv-conf=I<FILE>

This option can be used to specify the location of the B<resolv.conf>
configuration file containing the name servers to use for lookups.

=item -i I<FILE>, --root-hints=I<FILE>

This option can be used to specify the location of the root.hints
configuration file, containing the root name servers.  This is only
used when no name server is found, and B<dt-validate> must do recursive
lookups itself.

=item -S I<suite>[:I<suite>], --test-suite=I<suite>[:I<suite>]

This option specifies the test suite (or range of test suites) to use 
for the internal tests.

=item -s, --selftest

This option can be used to specify that the application should perform its 
self tests using names from the configured test-suite.

=item -T I<number>[:I<number>], --testcase=I<number>[:I<number>]

This option can be used to run a specific test (or range of tests) 
from the test suite.

=item -F I<file>, --testcase-conf=I<file> 

This option is used to specify the file containing the test cases.

=item -l I<label>, --label=I<label> 

This option can be used to specify the policy from within the I<dnsval.conf> 
file to use during validation. 

=item -w I<seconds>, --wait=I<seconds> 

This option can be used to run the queries specified by other flags in a loop,
with the specified interval between successive queries.

=item -o, --output=<debug-level>:<dest-type>[:<dest-options>]

<debug-level> is 1-7, corresponding to syslog levels ALERT-DEBUG
<dest-type> is one of file, net, syslog, stderr, stdout
<dest-options> depends on <dest-type>
    file:<file-name>   (opened in append mode)
    net[:<host-name>:<host-port>] (127.0.0.1:1053
    syslog[:facility] (0-23 (default 1 USER))

=back

=head1 PRE-REQUISITES

B<libval>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2013 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

=head1 AUTHORS

Abhijit Hayatnagarkar, Suresh Krishnaswamy, Robert Story

=head1 SEE ALSO

I<syslog(3)>

B<libval(3)>

http://www.dnssec-tools.org

=cut

