=pod

=head1 NAME

getname - command-line test program for the I<val_getnameinfo()> function 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   getname [options] address 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility is a command-line wrapper around the I<val_getnameinfo()>
function.  It invokes the I<val_getnameinfo()> function with the given
command-line arguments and displays the returned host and service information
for the given node name, with a validation status value.

The exit status for this program is 1 if the answer received is trusted, 2 if
the answer received is validated, and -1 for an error.  The program returns 0 if 
no validation was performed or if the result was neither trusted nor validated. 
The trusted and validated status values are obtained using the I<val_istrusted()> 
and I<val_isvalidated()> functions from I<libval(3)>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -p, --port

Use the supplied port. If a port is specified, service information is not looked up.

=item -F

Use the NI_NOFQDN flag.

=item -H

Use the NI_NUMERICHOST flag.

=item -N

Use the NI_NAMEREQD flag.

=item -S

Use the NI_NUMERICSERV flag.

=item -D

Use the NI_DGRAM flag.

=item -o, --output=<debug-level>:<dest-type>[:<dest-options>]

<debug-level> is 1-7, corresponding to syslog levels ALERT-DEBUG
<dest-type> is one of file, net, syslog, stderr, stdout
<dest-options> depends on <dest-type>
    file:<file-name>   (opened in append mode)
    net[:<host-name>:<host-port>] (127.0.0.1:1053
    syslog[:facility] (0-23 (default 1 USER))

=item -h, --help

Display the help and exit.

=back

=head1 PRE-REQUISITES

libval

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2012 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

=head1 AUTHORS

Abhijit Hayatnagarkar, Suresh Krishnaswamy, Robert Story, Michael Baer

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<val_getnameinfo(3)>

B<libval(3)>

http://www.dnssec-tools.org

=cut

