=pod

=head1 NAME

getquery - command-line test program for the I<val_get_rrset()> function 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

   getquery [options] name 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This utility is a command-line wrapper around the I<val_get_rrset()>
function.  It invokes the I<val_get_rrset()> function with the given
command-line arguments and displays the returned data and the 
validated, trusted and non-existence status
for each resource record set returned in the response. Any information about name
aliases are also displayed. The trusted and
validated status values are obtained using the I<val_istrusted()> and
I<val_isvalidated()> functions from I<libval(3)>.

This program returns 0 on success and -1 on failure.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -t <type>

Perform the query for the given DNS record type

=item -o, --output=<debug-level>:<dest-type>[:<dest-options>]

<debug-level> is 1-7, corresponding to syslog levels ALERT-DEBUG
<dest-type> is one of file, net, syslog, stderr, stdout
<dest-options> depends on <dest-type>
    file:<file-name>   (opened in append mode)
    net[:<host-name>:<host-port>] (127.0.0.1:1053
    syslog[:facility] (0-23 (default 1 USER))

=item -h, --help

Display the help and exit.

=back

=head1 PRE-REQUISITES

libval

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2012 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

=head1 AUTHORS

Abhijit Hayatnagarkar, Suresh Krishnaswamy, Robert Story, Michael Baer

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<val_get_rrset(3)>

B<libval(3)>

http://www.dnssec-tools.org

=cut

