
=pod

=head1 NAME

B<libval_check_conf> - command-line program for checking validity of the validator configuration file.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    libval_check_conf [options] <dnsval.conf>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This program checks the validity of a given validator configuration file,
typically named B<dnsval.conf>, for any syntax errors.  The input to this
program is a validator configuration file, but the program also requires valid
B<resolv.conf> and B<root.hints> to be specified.  The location for these
auxiliary files may be specified using the I<-r> and I<-i> options
respectively.  If these options are not provided, the default B<resolv.conf>
and B<root.hints> files recognized by the validator library are used instead.
The program displays an error if the default B<resolv.conf> and B<root.hints>
files, and the I<-i> and I<-r> are both unspecified.

=head1 RETURN VALUE

The program returns 0 on success and -1 on failure.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -r, --resolv-conf

Specifies the location for the resolv.conf file.  If this option is not
specified the default resolv.conf file recognized by the validator llibrary is
used instead.

=item -i, --root-hints

Specifies the location for the root.hints file.  If this option is not
specified the default root.hints file recognized by the validator library is
used instead.

=item -v, --verbose

Displays detailed messages and warnings associated with the validator configuration file check process.

=item -h, --help

Displays a usage help message and exits the program.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2007 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

=head1 AUTHORS

Suresh Krishnaswamy (hserus@users.sourceforge.net)

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<dnsval.conf(3)>

=cut
