
=pod

=head1 NAME

		      The Validator Shim Library

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The validator shim library (I<libval_shim.so>) is a shared library
designed to be dynamically loaded using the 'LD_PRELOAD' mechanism
(I<ld.so(8)>) supported on linux and various other unix-like
platforms. The shim library implements wrappers for a number of DNS
related functions and in turn calls equivalent DNSSEC-aware validating
functions from I<libval(3)>, mapping the results to return codes
recognized by the original functions. In this way a wide variety of
applications can be made DNSSEC aware without code changes and
recompilation.

The method of mapping return codes assumes that any 'untrusted' or
failure result from the I<libval(3)> function is reflected as a
failure to the original calling function.

=head2 I<Usage:>

To load the library set LD_PRELOAD variable within the environment of
the the target application prior to execution:

=over 4
   	export LD_PRELOAD=libval_shim.so
=back

=back

=head2 I<Validation Policy:>

The policy to be applied for the invoked I<libval(3)> functions is
chosen in the following way:

=over 4

=item 1) The value of the 'LIBVAL_SHIM_CONTEXT' environment variable

=item 2) The application name

=item 3) The default policy ':'

=back

See I<dnsval.conf(1)> for information on policy labels and definition.

=head2 I<Logging:>

Logging for the I<libval(3)> functions may be enabled in the shim
library by setting the 'LIBVAL_SHIM_LOG' environment variable.

=over 4

        export LIBVAL_SHIM_LOG="7:stderr"
	or
	export LIBVAL_SHIM_LOG="7:file:/tmp/validatorlog.txt"

=back

See I<validate(1)> for log output specifier format.

=head1 NOTES

=head2 setuid/setgid programs


setuid and setgid root programs (e.g., I<ping(8)>) do not honor the
LD_PRELOAD setting. These application may still use the LD_PRELOAD
mechanism when run directly from a root shell.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2004-2008 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the dnssec-tools package for details.


=head1 AUTHORS

G. S. Marzot

=head1 SEE ALSO

I<libsres(3)>, I<libval(3)>, I<dnsval.conf(1)>, I<gethostbyname(3)>

I<gethostbyaddr(3)>, I<getnameinfo(3)>, I<getaddrinfo(3)>, I<res_query(3)>
