=pod

=head1 NAME

validate - Query the Domain Name System and display results of the
           DNSSEC validation process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  validate

  validate [options] DOMAIN_NAME

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<validate> is a diagnostic tool built on top of the DNSSEC validator.
It takes a I<DOMAIN_NAME> as an argument and queries the DNS
for that domain name.  It outputs the series of responses that were
received from the DNS and the DNSSEC validation results for each of them.  
An examination of the queries and validation results
can help an administrator uncover errors in DNSSEC configuration
of DNS zones.

If no options are specified and no I<DOMAIN_NAME> argument is present,
B<validate> will perform a series of pre-defined test queries against
the I<test.dnssec-tools.org> zone.  This serves as a
test-suite for the validator.  If any options are specified (e.g.
configuration file locations), I<-s> or I<--selftest> must be specified
to run the test-suite.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -c I<CLASS>, --class=I<CLASS>

This option can be used to specify the DNS class of the Resource
Record queried.  If this option is not given, the default class
B<IN> is used.

=item -h, --help

Display the help and exit.

=item -m, --merge

When this option is given, B<validate> will merge different RRsets
in the response into a single answer.  If this option is not given,
each RRset is output as a separate response.  This option makes
sense only when used with the I<-p> option.

=item -p, --print

Print the answer(s) and validation result(s).  By default, B<validate>
just outputs a series of responses and their validation results on
I<stderr>.  When the I<-p> option is used, B<validate> will also output
the final result on I<stdout>.

=item -t I<TYPE>, --type=I<TYPE>

This option can be used to specify the DNS type of the Resource Record
queried.  If this option is not given, B<validate> will query for the
B<A> record for the given I<DOMAIN_NAME>.

=item -v I<FILE>, --dnsval-conf=I<FILE>

This option can be used to specify the location of the dnsval.conf
configuration file.

=item -r I<FILE>, --resolv-conf=I<FILE>

This option can be used to specify the location of the resolv.conf
configuration file containing the namservers to use for lookups.

=item -i I<FILE>, --root-hints=I<FILE>

This option can be used to specify the location of the root.hints
configuration file, containing the root nameservers. This is only
used when no nameserver is found, and B<validate> must do recursive
lookups itself.

=item -s, --selftest

This option can be used to specify that the application should perform
its test-suite against the I<dnssec-tools.org> test domain. If the
nameservers configured in the system resolv.conf do not support DNSSEC,
use the I<-r> and I<-i> options to enable 
B<validate> to use it's own internal recursive resolver.

=item -T<testcase number>

This option can be used to run a sepecific test from the testsuite.

=item -o, --output=<debug-level>:<dest-type>[:<dest-options>]

<debug-level> is 1-7, corresponding to syslog levels ALERT-DEBUG
<dest-type> is one of file, net, syslog, stderr, stdout
<dest-options> depends on <dest-type>
    file:<file-name>   (opened in append mode)
    net[:<host-name>:<host-port>] (127.0.0.1:1053
    syslog[:facility] (0-23 (default 1 USER))

=back

=head1 PRE-REQUISITES

libval

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2006 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

=head1 AUTHORS

Abhijit Hayatnagarkar, Suresh Krishnaswamy, Robert Story

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<drawvalmap>, B<libval(3)>, B<val_query(3)>

http://dnssec-tools.sourceforge.net

=cut

