\clearpage

\subsubsection{krfcheck}

{\bf NAME}

\cmd{krfcheck} - Check a DNSSEC-Tools \struct{keyrec} file for problems and
inconsistencies

{\bf SYNOPSIS}

\begin{verbatim}
  krfcheck [-zone | -set | -key] [-count] [-quiet]
           [-verbose] [-Version] [-help] keyrec-file
\end{verbatim}

{\bf DESCRIPTION}

This script checks a \struct{keyrec} file for problems, potential problems,
and inconsistencies.

Recognized problems include:

\begin{itemize}

\item no zones defined\verb" "

The \struct{keyrec} file does not contain any zone \struct{keyrec}s.

\item no sets defined\verb" "

The \struct{keyrec} file does not contain any set \struct{keyrec}s.

\item no keys defined\verb" "

The \struct{keyrec} file does not contain any key \struct{keyrec}s.

\item unknown zone \struct{keyrec}s\verb" "

A set \struct{keyrec} or a key \struct{keyrec} references a non-existent zone
\struct{keyrec}.

\item missing key from zone \struct{keyrec}\verb" "

A zone \struct{keyrec} does not have both a KSK key and a ZSK key.

\item missing key from set \struct{keyrec}\verb" "

A key listed in a set \struct{keyrec} does not have a key \struct{keyrec}.

\item expired zone \struct{keyrec}s\verb" "

A zone has expired.

\item mislabeled key\verb" "

A key is labeled as a KSK (or ZSK) and its owner zone has it labeled as the
opposite.

\item invalid zone data values\verb" "

A zone's \struct{keyrec} data are checked to ensure that they are valid.  The
following conditions are checked:  existence of the zone file, existence of
the KSK file, existence of the KSK and ZSK directories, the end-time is
greater than one day, and the seconds-count and date string match.

\item invalid key data values\verb" "

A key's \struct{keyrec} data are checked to ensure that they are valid.  The
following conditions are checked:  valid encryption algorithm, key length
falls within algorithm's size range, random generator file exists, and the
seconds-count and date string match.

\end{itemize}

Recognized potential problems include:

\begin{itemize}

\item imminent zone expiration\verb" "

A zone will expire within one week. 

\item odd zone-signing date\verb" "

A zone's recorded signing date is later than the current system clock.

\item orphaned keys\verb" "

A key \struct{keyrec} is unreferenced by any set \struct{keyrec}.

\item missing key directories\verb" "

A zone \struct{keyrec}'s key directories ({\it kskdirectory} or {\it
zskdirectory}) does not exist.

\end{itemize}

Recognized inconsistencies include:

\begin{itemize}

\item key-specific fields in a zone \struct{keyrec}\verb" "

A zone \struct{keyrec} contains key-specific entries.  To allow for
site-specific extensibility, \cmd{krfcheck} does not check for undefined
\struct{keyrec} fields.

\item zone-specific fields in a key \struct{keyrec}\verb" "

A key \struct{keyrec} contains zone-specific entries.  To allow for
site-specific extensibility, \cmd{krfcheck} does not check for undefined
\struct{keyrec} fields.

\item mismatched zone timestamp\verb" "

A zone's seconds-count timestamp does not match its textual timestamp.

\item mismatched set timestamp\verb" "

A set's seconds-count timestamp does not match its textual timestamp.

\item mismatched key timestamp\verb" "

A key's seconds-count timestamp does not match its textual timestamp.

\end{itemize}

{\bf OPTIONS}

\begin{description}

\item {\bf -zone}\verb" "

Only perform checks of zone \struct{keyrec}s.  This option may not be combined
with the {\it -set} or {\it -key} options.

\item {\bf -set}\verb" "

Only perform checks of set \struct{keyrec}s.  This option may not be combined
with the {\it -zone} or {\it -key} options.

\item {\bf -key}\verb" "

Only perform checks of key \struct{keyrec}s.  This option may not be combined
with the {\it -set} or {\it -zone} options.

\item {\bf -count}\verb" "

Display a final count of errors.

\item {\bf -quiet}\verb" "

Do not display messages.  This option supersedes the setting of the
{\it -verbose} option.

\item {\bf -verbose}\verb" "

Display many messages.  This option is subordinate to the {\it -quiet} option.

\item {\bf -Version}\verb" "

Display the \cmd{krfcheck} version number and exit.

\item {\bf -help}\verb" "

Display a usage message.

\end{description}

{\bf SEE ALSO}

cleankrf(8),
fixkrf(8),
lskrf(1),
zonesigner(8)

Net::DNS::SEC::Tools::keyrec.pm(3)

file-keyrec(5)

