=pod

=head1 NAME

validate - Query the Domain Name System and display results of the
           DNSSEC validation process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  validate

  validate [options] DOMAIN_NAME

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<validate> is a diagnostic tool built on top of the DNSSEC validator.
It takes a I<DOMAIN_NAME> as an argument and queries the DNS
for that domain name.  It outputs the series of queries that were
sent to the DNS and the DNSSEC validation results for each query on
I<stderr>.  An examination of the queries and validation results
can help an administrator uncover errors in DNSSEC configuration
of DNS zones.

If the I<DOMAIN_NAME> argument is not specified, B<validate> will
perform a series of pre-defined test queries against the
I<test.dnssec-tools.org> zone.  This essentially serves as a check
for the validator.

B<validate> can be used in conjunction with the B<drawvalmap> tool
to display the query-sequence and validation results graphically:

  bash# validate <DOMAIN_NAME> 2>&1 | drawvalmap -d

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -c I<CLASS>, --class=I<CLASS>

This option can be used to specify the DNS class of the Resource
Record queried.  If this option is not given, the default class
B<IN> is used.

=item -h, --help

Display the help and exit.

=item -m, --merge

When this option is given, B<validate> will merge different RRsets
in the response into a single answer.  If this option is not given,
each RRset is output as a separate response.  This option makes
sense only when used with the I<-p> option.

=item -p, --print

Print the answer(s) and validation result(s).  By default, B<validate>
just outputs a series of queries and their validation results on
I<stderr>.  When the I<-p> option is used, B<validate> will also output
the final result on I<stdout>.

=item -t I<TYPE>, --type=I<TYPE>

This option can be used to specify the DNS type of the Resource Record
queried.  If this option is not given, B<validate> will query for the
B<A> record for the given I<DOMAIN_NAME>.

=back

=head1 NOTES

This is an initial version of the B<validate> tool. In future, this
tool will be extended to provide more features.

=head1 PRE-REQUISITES

libval

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2005-2006 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.
See the COPYING file included with the DNSSEC-Tools package for details.

=head1 AUTHORS

Abhijit Hayatnagarkar, Suresh Krishnaswamy

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<drawvalmap>, B<libval(3)>, B<val_query(3)>

http://dnssec-tools.sourceforge.net

=cut

