#!/usr/bin/perl
#
# Copyright 2012 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.  See the COPYING
# file distributed with this software for details.
#
# owl-data.pod						Owl Monitoring System
#
#       This module contains contains the pod describing the data files
#	created by the Owl sensor scripts.
#
# Revision History:
#	1.0	121201	Initial version.
#

1;


=pod

=head1 NAME

owl-data - Data file format for Owl sensor programs

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Each query thread run by B<owl-dnstimer> writes the results of its queries
to its own data file.  These files are periodically rolled so the data aren't
stored in a single file and the file size doesn't grow too large.

=head2 Filename Format

The format of the data file names is as follows:

    <YYMMDD>.<hhmm>,<sensor>,<target>,<ns>,<query>.dns

where:

    YYMMDD - year, month, day
    hhmm   - hour, minute
    sensor - name of sensor that generated the data
    target - target host's name
    ns     - nameserver's name
    query  - type of DNS query; e.g., A, AAAA, NS

Examples of the data file names:

    121208.1710,sensor41,example.com,h.root-servers.net,A.dns
    121208.1710,sensor41,example.com,h.root-servers.net,NS.dns
    121208.1710,sensor41,example.com,m.root-servers.net,A.dns
    121208.1740,sensor41,.,d.root-servers.net,ANY.dns
    121208.1740,sensor41,example.com,h.root-servers.net,A.dns
    121208.1740,sensor41,example.com,h.root-servers.net,NS.dns

=head2 Data Format

Each line in the data file contains a single query response.
The line format follows:

    <timestamp> <target> <ns> <query type> <query time> <return code>

where:

    timestamp   - timestamp from the epoch
    target      - target host
    ns          - nameserver name
    query type  - type of DNS query
    query time  - time in seconds from query to response
    return code - success/error indicator

If an ANYCAST query is performed, then a I<root name> field will be appended
to the data line.  This is the field returned by the nameserver.

Examples of data file entries:

    1354951630.21238 tislabs.com ns1.local A 0.009197950363159 NOERROR 
    1354951630.28425 tislabs.com ns1.local NS 0.008725881576538 NOERROR 
    1354951690.23512 tislabs.com h.root-servers.net ANYCAST 0.009922981262207 NOERROR H3

=head1 SEE ALSO

B<owl-dnstimer(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012 SPARTA, Inc.  All rights reserved.

=head1 AUTHOR

Wayne Morrison, tewok@tislabs.com

=cut

